Australian fire fighters are, battling a series of major wildfires in New South Wales, with fears that hundreds of homes have been destroyed.

The blazes are continuing to burn on the outskirts of Sydney, despite the easing of temperatures and winds.

One man has died while trying to protect his home.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott visited Winmalee in the Blue Mountains, one of the areas worst-hit by the fires, around 70km (45 miles) west of Sydney.

Correspondents say bushfires are common in, Australia but they have come earlier, than normal this year, sparking concerns of further problems to come.

Minister for Police and Emergency Services Michael Gallacher told the BBC that "the speed and the ferocity" of the fires was something "not seen for many, many years".

"We had one fire front that changed direction and had a front to it, so if you can imagine, burning in one direction 25km (15 miles) wide."

"We're only now in the process of being able to, return to some of the sites to check the magnitude of the losses and I've got to say, it's going to be quite substantial," he added.

Hundreds of residents spent Thursday night in evacuation centres, with many returning home to find their houses razed.

Fire fighters described blazes as tall as 20m to 30m (100ft).

A 63-year-old man died from a heart attack as he tried to defend his home in Lake Munmorah, in the Central Coast region of NSW, on Thursday afternoon.

Around 2,000 fire fighters across the state worked to try and contain the fires but many are still burning out of control, says the BBC's Jon Donnison in Sydney.

Mr Abbott, in Winmalee, said of those helping to battle the fires: "These are ordinary people who, on an extraordinary day, come together to support their community and to protect their fellow Australians."

At least three fire fighters have been reported injured.

The NSW Rural Fire Service said an initial assessment of the Winmalee and Springwood areas showed that 81 properties had been destroyed, with 37 damaged.

"Approximately 30% of the fireground has been assessed," it said. "The number of properties destroyed or damaged will rise."

Reports estimate that as many as 200 homes could be lost in total.

The fires have been caused by unseasonably hot temperatures and strong winds. While these have now died down, more hot weather is forecast next week.
It's been an awful 24 hours for the Blue Mountains [region]," Mayor Mark Greenhill told Nine Network Television. "We've lost possibly scores of homes."

Ron Fuller, who lost his home in Winmalee, told ABC News: "We've had a number of fires through here before but this was an extraordinary fire. The speed was extraordinary, it just raced through this whole area, took out some houses, left other ones standing."

Jodie Harrison, Mayor of Lake Macquarie, said that four heritage homes, as well as a historic jetty, were caught in the fire.

"It's been confirmed that four houses in the heritage village of Catherine Hill Bay have been lost," she told local media.
Darkened skyline

NSW Premier Barry O'Farrell, in an interview on broadcaster 7 News, called the fires "some of the worst we have experienced around Sydney in living memory".

We're in for a long, tough summer," he added.

Alex Chesser, a District Officer with the New South Wales Rural Fire Service, told the BBC that the fires had come unusually early.

"It's... a combination of a couple years of quite wet summers and winters which have allowed the bush to continue to grow at high rates, and also prevented us undertaking as many hazard reduction burns as we'd like," he said.

Smoke and ash from the wildfires blanketed the Sydney skyline on Thursday.

New South Wales was also hit by bush fires in September, which injured several fire fighters.

Are you in New South Wales? Have you been affected by the wildfires? Send us your comments using the form below.

Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (International). If you have a large file you can upload here.

Read the terms and conditions

 SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — Google Inc. shares rallied late Thursday after the Internet company beat Wall Street’s profit and revenue estimates for the third quarter.

Google GOOG +8.35%  shares were up nearly 8% in after-hours trading — putting the stock on track to set a new all-time high when the market opens on Friday morning. The company showed solid gains in its core advertising business despite continued pressures from losses in its Motorola division.

The Mountain View, Calif.-based search giant reported a third-quarter profit of $2.97 billion, or $8.75 a share, compared with a profit of $2.18 billion, or $6.53 a share, for the year-earlier period. Adjusted profit was $10.74 per share.

 Net revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, was to $11.92 billion, up from $11.3 billion.

Analysts polled by FactSet on average were expecting the Internet giant to report a profit of $10.36 a share, on net revenue of $11.7 billion.

Google said paid clicks, the number of times users clicked on the sites ads and generate revenue, rose 26% from the year-earlier period. The company said cost-per-clicks, the prices paid for Google advertising, fell 8% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.

Operating income from Google’s core business jumped 17% to $4.6 billion — offsetting a $248 million operating loss at Motorola. The handset making division also reported a drop in segment revenue of 33% to $1.2 billion compared to last year’s third quarter, despite the launch of the Moto X handset during the period.

Topeka Capital analyst Victor Anthony called Google’s results “a very good print” that was ahead of his forecasts.

“The bear case on the stock was for pressure on search volumes in the quarter, so the 26% paid clicks growth, a three point acceleration from the second quarter, was particularly robust versus expectations,” he told MarketWatch. However, he noted the “further deceleration” in cost-per-clicks, a key metric for Google, which Anthony said was “a bit disappointing.”

“But the recent changes implemented by Google should reverse that trend in the future,” he added.

Analysts were generally expecting a decline in cost-per-clicks of about 5%, while the expectation for paid clicks was for growth of about 22%, said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis. But Google’s results showed the company was still wrestling with trends in its ad business, he said.

“They’re growing paid clicks, but people are paying less for them,” Gillis told MarketWatch. “That’s a troubling trend. And this is the quarter where enhanced campaigns are supposed to be helping click pricing.”

Google recently introduced a new system for buying ads called Enhanced Campaigns, which allows advertisers to launch campaigns for both desktop and mobile devices. Analysts expect that system to lead to improved pricing.

 “We view Google’s Q3 results as evidence of the ability of Enhanced Campaigns to reaccelerate ad revenue growth,” Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray wrote in a note following the report.

But Gillis offered a downbeat view, telling MarketWatch, “These guys continue to mint money. [But] when you look a little closer, there are little cracks. Click pricing went in the wrong direction for the second quarter in a row.”

On the call with analysts, Chief Executive Larry Page, who’s been struggling with problems related to his voice, said he will no longer join every earnings call in the future. “I know you would all love to have me on, but you’re also depending on me to prioritize any time for the benefit of the business, and I’m very confident you’re in good hands with Patrick and Nikesh,” he said, speaking of CFO Patrick Pichette and chief business officer Nikesh Arora.

Gillis said, “It’s understandable. Not every CEO has to be on the call.”

Benjamin Pimentel is a MarketWatch reporter based in San Francisco. Follow him on Twitter @BenPimentel.
